[1] p.121 | score=0.6667
test is positive a confirmatory
blood glucose test need to be arranged to diagnose diabetes mellitus.
7 All current smokers and those who quit smoking less than 1 year before the assess-
ment are considered smokers for assessing cardiovascular risk.
8 Systolic blood pressure, taken as the mean of two readings on each of two occasions,
is sufficient for assessing risk but not for establishing a pretreatment baseline.
9 The mean of two non-fasting measurements of serum cholesterol by dry chemistry

[2] p.19 | score=0.5000
I. Protocols for primary care
Reinforce message that
Do you use
A1: ASK NO tobacco increases risk of
tobacco?
heart disease
Advise to quit in a clear, strong and
personalized manner
“Tobacco use increases the risk of
A2: ADVISE YES developing a heart attack, stroke, lung
cancer and respiratory diseases. Quitting
tobacco use is the one most important
thing you can do to protect your heart and
health, you have to quit now.”
A3: ASSESS Are you willing to make a quit attempt now ?
YES NO
Assist in p

[3] p.16 | score=0.3333
requency and amount)
■ Angina, breathlessness on exertion ■ Occupation (sedentary or active)
and lying flat, numbness or weakness ■ Engaged in more than 30 minutes of
of limbs, loss of weight, increased thirst, physical activity at least 5 days a week
polyuria, puffiness of face, swelling of (yes/no)
feet, passing blood in urine etc ■ Family history of premature heart
■ Medicines that the patient is taking disease or stroke in first degree relatives
■ Current tobacco use (yes/no) (answer
yes if

[4] p.121 | score=0.3333
limitations,
the mean cholesterol value for the population can be used.
■ Before applying the chart to estimate the 10 year cardiovascular
risk of an individual, the following information is necessary:
■ Presence or absence of diabetes6
■ Gender
■ Smoker or non-smoker7
■ Age
■ Systolic blood pressure (SBP)8
■ Total blood cholesterol9 (if in mg/dl divide by 38 to convert to
mmol/l).
6 A person who has diabetes is defined as someone taking insulin or oral hypogly-
caemic drugs, or with a fasting p

[5] p.122 | score=0.2500
0-59 years select 50, if 60-69
years select 60 etc)
Step 5 Within this box find the nearest cell where the individuals sys-
tolic blood pressure (mm Hg) and total blood cholesterol level
(mmol/l) cross. The colour of this cell determines the 10 year
cardiovascular risk.
Practice points
Please note that CVD risk may be higher than indicated by the charts
in the presence of the following:
■ already on antihypertensive therapy
■ premature menopause
■ approaching the next age category or systolic bl